Product Engineer Handbook (#14530)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/product-engineer-handbook/product-teams.md

---
title: The product engineer's role in the product team
showTitle: true
---

Product engineers fundamentally reshape the way product teams work.

In a traditional product team, engineers often take direction from product managers, who gather requirements from stakeholders (i.e. sales teams, founders, customers), prioritize work, and create rigid plans for delivery.

This isn't a great system for giving engineers autonomy – it's literally designed to hem them in. Often product managers exist to control engineers, or shield them from organizational dysfunction. Not because they want to, but because execs think it's necessary.

[TODO: Bottleneck illustration here]

These systems are motivated by the desire for control, accountability (i.e. "who's to blame for this problem?"), and a lack of trust. They condition engineers to only care about their small area of influence and to disregard the wider impact of their work on customers or the business. 

> The result is a maze of half-baked features, and it’s just plain slow. PMs become the bottleneck and gatekeeper for decisions, and engineers feel frustrated. Instead, we have two simple principles that govern how product engineers and product managers work together.

Reviewer: This ending feels a bit disconnected and too inward focused
```suggestion
The result is a maze of half-baked features, and it’s [just plain slow](/newsletter/this-is-why-youre-not-shipping). PMs become the bottleneck and gatekeeper for decisions, and engineers feel frustrated. 

To realize the potential of product engineer as a role, there are two principles your product team needs to follow:
```
